2008-09-24
Both McCain and Obama want to talk about the financial crisis .
Does n't know how many houses he has ( 7 ) , how many cars he owns ( 13 ) ... is suspending his campaign to fight this economic crisis ?
Bush says this is the worst economic crisis of all time .
So if he is so big wanting to help the nation at a time of crisis
A week ago there was no economic crisis according to them .
Now , two days before the debate , they suddenly say they need extra time to deal with the crisis ?
We know the financial crisis is a direct result of the economic " policies "
--------------------------------
2008-10-01
But the market for cash among banks is global , and in Europe , government interventions have been unpredictable , with different countries taking different tacks to try to prevent a spiraling crisis in the financial system .
At 101 stories , the World Financial Center is China 's tallest building and a symbol of the country 's go-go economy .
That is , the government would take an ownership interest in the house just as it would take an ownership interest in the financial institutions that would be bailed out under the Treasury 's plan .
Yes , the government 's swift purchase of illiquid securities would stabilize compromised financial institutions and the credit markets .
With financial institutions de-leveraging and lending less , it will fall upon the government to invest more in the American economy -- to diminish the effects of the recession that is coming down the tracks and to build the kind of infrastructure that will enhance American competitiveness in a global economy .
The Singapore government , which through its massive sovereign wealth funds has increased its private equity and other financial holdings in recent years , has said it is looking to invest in more distressed assets in the United States .
The bailout plan 's political travails can be traced to its conception -- a three-page proposal for the Treasury secretary , who is the immediate past CEO of Wall Street 's most successful investment bank , to buy up financial institutions ' bad loans at prices he would set , with no oversight and no aid to anybody else .
--------------------------------
2008-09-19
" If Congress does not act , American taxpayers will continue to be exposed to the enormous risk that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac pose to the housing market , the overall financial system , and the economy as a whole , " Mr. McCain warned at the time .
These two entities -- Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac -- are not facing any kind of financial crisis , " said Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts , the ranking Democrat on the Financial Services Committee .
The WaPo says that Franklin Raines claimed to have taken calls from the Obama campaign on economic and housing issues .
Gramm was paid by a Swiss bank to lobby Congress about the U.S. mortgage crisis at the same time he was advising McCain about his economic policy .
REPUBLICANS like John McCain and his ECONOMIC ADVISOR Phil Gramm have been working toward this for YEARS .
" I am not an advisor to Barack Obama , nor have I provided his campaign with advice on housing or economic matters .
Given this - how amazing is it that Obama is trying to blame McCain for today 's economic crisis ?
--------------------------------
2008-09-25
patriot needs to demand that John McCain debate Barack Obama and tell the American people how he is going to fix this economic catastrophe that he ( John McCain ) , Bush , and the past Republican controlled congress created .
Gramm 's record as a reckless deregulator has not affected his rating as a Republican economic expert .
Now a well-paid executive at a Swiss bank , Gramm cochairs Sen. John McCain 's presidential campaign and advises the Republican candidate on economic matters .
McCain ca n't do anything in Washington to solve this economic crises .
Interesting ... because it was the democrats who forced these financial institutions to give loans to those beyond their means .
There is a whole gang of senators , congressmen , and financial heavyweights in Washington who can do all the work needed to solve the problem without McCain 's presence .
Do they prefer the MBA-style of President Bush , who delegated management of the economic crisis to Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson until he could not avoid a prime-time address to the nation , and then warned of dire consequences if the government does not act ?
--------------------------------
2008-11-05
GMAC , the financing arm of General Motors , says it is in negotiations to become a bank holding company , a shift that would allow it to take advantage of the government 's $ 700 billion financial rescue package .
-312.30 Former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan testifies in front of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee , saying the crisis had shaken his very understanding of how markets work and reversing his opposition to the regulation of certain financial derivatives .
Dow Jones Industrial Average : -369.88 President Bush says is will take time for the financial rescue plan to bolster the economy .
Stock markets soar as details of the multi-billion dollar financial rescue plan emerge .
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke testifies before the House Budget Committee and says Congress should consider implementing a second economic stimulus package .
President-elect Barack Obama 's transition team agrees to accompany Treasury Department officials to meet with Capitol Hill leaders to help the Bush administration gain access to the second half of the $ 700 billion financial rescue package .
The House Oversight Committee holds a hearing on hedge fund regulations and their role in the financial crisis .
--------------------------------
2008-10-16
Airlines Brace for Impact of Crisis Delta Air Lines chief executive Richard Anderson and other executives said the carrier was somewhat insulated from the economic downturn .
What might FDR say in a fireside chat during the financial crisis of 2008 ?
In our time of financial crisis , when everyone from the President to the world 's richest person is telling us we 're near the abyss , it 's worth hearing what a previous president said when Americans actually were in the abyss .
The financial crisis has just confirmed that the average american can no longer sit on the sidelines and hope their 401K investments will bail them out when they retire .
Most of the advice offered to solve the financial crisis has been based on the wrong diagnosis and has naturally offered the wrong remedy .
If there 's a silver lining to the current crisis , it 's that lots of sectors have gotten cheap at once .
He and other executives said Delta was more insulated from the economic slowdown because most of the airline 's growth has taken place in flights to and from Africa and the Middle East , away from the New York-to-London air corridor .
--------------------------------
2008-11-01
Ahead of Saturday 's global financial summit , President Bush vigorously defends Western capitalism .
--------------------------------
2008-09-16
Obama should attempt to link the current Wall Street crisis to the McCain\/Bush proposal to privatize social security .
There are few people who would dispute that this bill is directly linked to the current financial crisis .
Obama the self-serving , corrupt campaigner who is going around blasting hyperventilated , fear-stimulating talk trying to create an economic-fear-vote to help his campaign , is the kind of person who can cause the public to panic & a needed financial correction to shake out bad investment banks & let them fail , turn into a panicked loss of confidence and widespread failures .
McCain enthusastically supported this bill , his ( former ) chief economic advisor Phil Gramm was one of
The crisis that has seized Wall Street over the last few days caught the campaigns of both Barack Obama and John McCain flat-footed .
Yet another liberal dope writes : " that Phil Gram caused the subprime mortgage crisis , with his bill to ease banking regulations
Neither Obama or McCain have proposed an economic direction that is different from the one of the past 25 years .
--------------------------------
2008-09-18
But as Robert Dugger , an economist and partner in a leading hedge fund likes to points out , the markets have only just begun to force some financial discipline on the majority of U.S. households that relied on borrowed money to maintain their lifestyles .
Now , some Democrats want to create a new agency that would use money borrowed by the Treasury to recapitalize troubled financial institutions by buying some of their unwanted loans and securities at discounted prices .
The frenetic pace of the financial crisis has forced the Treasury Department and Federal Reserve to make rapid-fire decisions in recent days , leaving Capitol Hill lawmakers effectively impotent -- and frustrated .
And by acting as an intermediary , the Treasury and the Federal Reserve have shown a newfound willingness to use those funds to keep the housing market and the financial system from totally collapsing .
Constellation Energy , one of the country 's top generators of electricity and the parent of Baltimore Gas & Electric , is facing a crisis of confidence over the liquidity needs of its trading arm , which until this year was a profitable and rapidly growing business .
Less than one month after it reiterated a target of $ 149 a barrel by yearend , Goldman Sachs said the financial crisis and global economic slowdown could push prices down to $ 75 .
Scrambling to Clean Up After A Category 4 Financial Storm Robert Dugger , an economist and hedge-fund partner , says the markets have only just begun to force some financial discipline on the majority of U.S. households .
--------------------------------
2008-09-30
" I will continue to work with congressional leaders to find a way forward to pass a comprehensive plan to stabilize our financial system and protect the American people by limiting the prospects of further deterioration in our economy , " he said .
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke , along with Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. , had urged Congress to pass legislation that would allow the government to buy bad debt such as mortgage loans from financial firms .
He described the Sept. 30 notice , which allows some banks to keep more money by lowering their taxes , as a way to help financial institutions during a time of economic crisis .
And they will come around , reluctantly , to the understanding that the only way to get out of these situations is to have governments all around the world borrow gobs of money and effectively nationalize large swaths of the financial system so it can be restructured , recapitalized , reformed and returned to private ownership once the crisis has passed and the economy has gotten back on its feet .
That is the technical economic term that best sums up a day in which the House of Representatives refuses to pass a $ 700 billion rescue plan pushed by the White House and congressional leaders from both parties , Wachovia is taken over in a deal that will have the government potentially owning 10 percent of Citigroup
" The interbank markets are a fundamental part of the plumbing of the financial world , " Dennis Lockhart , president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta , said in a speech yesterday .
And on the particulars , about as many voters said the plan rejected by Congress did " too much " to help major financial institutions that got into trouble as said that the bill did " too little .
--------------------------------
2008-09-29
" It did n't work well mainly because this crisis originated in frightened financial markets .
And on Monday , most of them opted to stick to their faith , whatever the financial consequences for the nation .
The sale of Wachovia 's banking business to Citigroup yesterday marked the second time in five days that a major U.S. bank was forced from existence in part by fleeing depositors , raising serious questions about the stability of other financial firms and the health of the banking system .
A hallmark of the crisis has been the stark contrast between the " real economy " of production and jobs and the tumultuous financial markets of stocks , bonds , banks , money funds and the like .
Unfortunately , we lack experience with stabilizing financial markets , and the issue has been at the fringes of economics .
Massive losses on mortgage-related securities caused some financial institutions to fail .
As fear spread , financial institutions grew wary of dealing with each other because no one knew who was solvent and who was n't .
--------------------------------
2008-10-07
Robert B. Zoellick , president of the World Bank , said the global financial system may have reached a " tipping point " -- the moment when a crisis cascades into a full-blown meltdown and becomes extremely difficult for governments to contain .
During Tuesday 's debate , Republican presidential nominee Sen. John McCain ( Ariz. ) charged that the mortgage finance giants " lit this fire " under the economic crisis .
The crisis threatens to reverse years of prosperity that financed the economic growth in developed and emerging countries through a global financial system that made credit widely available .
But now , in the reverberations of the global financial crisis , Polonka Parkline itself has been put on hold , along with all of billionaire developer Sergei Polonsky 's projects , except those on which construction has already begun .
The impact of the crisis is clearest in real estate construction , one of the fastest-growing segments of the economy over the past few years but also one of the most heavily dependent on bank loans .
This article quoted World Bank President Robert B. Zoellick as saying the world financial system may have reached a " tipping point .
Meanwhile , the Russian banking system is enduring a severe liquidity crisis triggered by a flight of capital and foreign loans .
--------------------------------
2008-10-15
Alex , What 's your estimate of the total amount of money that the Fed , Treasury , and other governments have been putting into banks and other financial institutions so far ?
Germany 's benchmark DAX stock market index opened lower on Wednesday as investors weighed the possibility that the financial crisis could cause a sharp slowdown in world economic growth .
Alex Blumberg : I 'm not a financial manager .
A decade ago , long before the financial calamity now sweeping the world , the federal government 's economic brain trust heard a clarion warning and declared in unison :
Swaps delude investors and financial institutions into thinking that risks are lower than they really are and thereby distort our entire market system .
A combination of the former Union Bank of Switzerland and Swiss Bank Corp. , it prospered during the bank-merger boom of the past two decades and manages more private wealth assets than any other financial institution in the world .
" Wednesday , October 15 , 2008 ; 11:00 AM Alex Blumberg of " Planet Money " and " This American Life " was online Wednesday , Oct. 15 at 11 a.m. ET to offer some " Crisis 101 " explanations about the current state of the economy and takes your questions about the proposals to improve the situation .
--------------------------------
2008-10-17
To do this , we need cross-border supervision of financial institutions ; shared global standards for accounting and regulation ; a more responsible approach to executive remuneration that rewards hard work , effort and enterprise but not irresponsible risk-taking ; and the renewal of our international institutions to make them effective early-warning systems for the world economy .
We are living through the first financial crisis of this new global age .
TOKYO , Oct. 17 -- Fear of a deep global recession washed over Asian and European markets Thursday , and the financial crisis continued to shake major institutions .
It is important , too , that in the international leaders ' meeting that has been proposed we seek a world trade agreement and reject the beggar-thy-neighbor protectionism that has been a feature of past crises .
The old postwar international financial institutions are out of date .
" Today , the same sort of visionary internationalism is needed to resolve the crises and challenges of a different age .
At the end of World War II , American and European visionaries built a new international economic order and formed the International Monetary Fund , the World Bank and a world trade body .
--------------------------------
2008-11-10
The financial world was fixated on Capitol Hill as Congress battled over the Bush administration 's request for a $ 700 billion bailout of the banking industry .
" The story of the obscure provision underscores what critics in Congress , academia and the legal profession warn are the dangers of the broad authority being exercised by Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. in addressing the financial crisis .
Until the financial meltdown , its opponents thought it would be nearly impossible to revamp the section because this would look like a corporate giveaway , according to lobbyists .
The credit crisis has moved into trade finance as largely a funding problem .
It is a " lender of last resort " that provides credit lines when private financial markets are not lending .
Export credit agencies have helped mitigate a financial crisis before .
It is critical for global prosperity that trade financing -- be it keeping credit lines open , oiling the trade supply chain or direct funding -- remain vibrant during the financial crisis .
--------------------------------
2008-11-13
The Bush administration initially was n't enthusiastic about this weekend 's meeting of the Group of 20 nations to discuss the global financial crisis .
Financial institutions are continuing to sell assets in a falling market to meet capital requirements or other rules .
The most famous financial summit , the Bretton Woods gathering of 1944 , built upon this principle .
the arrival of China as a co-manager of global prosperity ; the new assertiveness of Europe in arguing for its own , Brussels-style transnational approach to financial regulation ; and the growing anger of developing economies such as Brazil , which feel caught in a downturn for which they had no responsibility .
Anger toward America for creating the financial contagion is a powerful , if largely unstated , theme .
A decade ago , when a country such as Brazil experienced a financial crisis , it was possible to blame bad Brazilian policy .
So the Bretton Woods architects created financial insurance in the form of the International Monetary Fund .
--------------------------------
2008-09-15
The U.S. financial system this weekend faced its gravest crisis in modern times , as regulators resorted to triage on Wall Street to contain the spreading damage from a meltdown in the housing and mortgage market .
Wall Street firms have been allowed to grow with relatively few restrictions ; the regulator that oversees their financial soundness , the Securities and Exchange Commission , is historically more focused on protecting investors than preventing a run on a bank .
Paulson has offered a blueprint to overhaul this financial regulation , and Congress plans to take it up next year .
Regulators of all stripes have had difficulty getting the information they need to fully understand the risks that financial firms are taking .
The titans of Wall Street have , over the past 72 hours , been forced to reckon with the reality that the financial sector they built is , in its current form , too big , uses too much borrowed money and creates too much risk for the broader economy .
Both McCain and Obama addressed the burgeoning economic crisis on the Trail yesterday .
Among the issues likely to be scrutinized : How much of a day -to-day role should the government and regulators take in financial markets ?
--------------------------------
2008-09-17
U.S. Seizes Control of AIG With $ 85 Billion Emergency Loan Invoking extraordinary powers granted after the 1929 stock market crash , the government seized control of the insurance giant American International Group to preserve a crucial bulwark of the global financial system .
Greed and fear , which routinely govern financial markets , have seeded this global crisis .
The U.S. is moving in dog years compared to Japan , " said Adam Posen , deputy director of the Peterson Institute for International Economics and a former consultant to the U.S. government on the Japan crisis .
He said government officials have been in close contact with a number of other countries , including Sweden , which is credited by experts with comparatively deft handling of its financial crisis in the early 1990s .
American regulators have been actively seeking advice from Japan , hoping that a better understanding of its mistakes will aid them in navigating their own country 's financial crisis .
Regarding the Sept. 17 front-page article on the government bailout of American International Group ( AIG ) , which was published a day after the op-ed column " No More Creampuffs , " about the government being willing to let large firms fail : It seems to me that the market is not really free if oil companies get huge tax breaks and financial institutions such as Fannie Mae , Freddie Mac and AIG know that the federal government will bail them out when they make stupid decisions .
Now , most financial firms also invest for themselves .
--------------------------------
2008-09-22
Yes , there has been serious moral failure that has led to this economic wreckage and moral failure requires accountability .
In what ways did I buy into an economic model completely built upon greater and greater consumption - a system in which our ever expanding desires far too easily are turned into needs ?
Obviously , some people are guiltier than others for this economic crisis but in an interdependent reality all are responsible .
And I guess the basic religious and spiritual notions of accountability and taking responsibility have been annulled with regard to financial leaders and their institutions that need to be " saved " .
What about last Monday 's fundamentally strong economy versus yesterday 's extreme crisis ?
If he felt the crisis was so important he could have suspended his campaign last week or Monday , Tuesday even Wednesday .
But no great moral or spiritual insight is required to know that the moral failure that has led to our present crisis is as old as human beings - in a word GREED and it would be far too easy for any " us " to simply blame some other " them " and thereby deflect and project our responsibility on someone else .
--------------------------------
2008-09-26
In decrying the lack of government regulation , Sarkozy joined a broad spectrum of European leaders and commentators who have interpreted the financial crisis as a death knell for the current financial markets and banking systems .
Their comments sometimes have betrayed an " I told you so " sentiment , after years during which U.S. officials suggested that many of Europe 's economic problems stemmed from an excess of regulation and government intervention .
The appropriate degree of state intervention in banking and financial dealings also has been a frequent subject of disagreement within the European Union .
" Sarkozy 's speech was described by aides as an attempt to reassure the French and other Europeans in the face of the sudden financial instability that threatens to aggravate an already bleak economic picture .
But beyond Europe , he said , the leaders of all the world 's major industrial powers should gather at a special summit before the end of the year and start to construct from scratch a new financial and monetary framework to replace the U.S.-dominated system set up at Bretton Woods , N.H. , in 1944 .
The hour-long address , to a receptive audience of political supporters in this Mediterranean seaport , also seemed designed to project Sarkozy as an innovator taking the initiative with fellow world leaders rather than submitting to a crisis that he said originated on Wall Street and unfurled across the Atlantic because of inadequate government regulation .
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany , usually a stalwart ally of President Bush , also has derided the lack of regulation that , in her view , allowed the financial crisis to erupt in the United States and seep toward Europe .
--------------------------------
2008-11-04
No , the GOP election subcommittees charted this , the oil crisis with drilling resolution , & almost certainly have another crisis or two to spring upon us before November 4th .
In the initial weeks of the global financial crisis , Chinese officials resolutely declared that they were not significantly affected .
And for the Communist Party , the crisis is not just an economic one , but a political one .
The economic devastation has been worst in the industrial centers of southern China , areas that had thrived in recent decades by producing the electronics , clothing , toys and furniture that fill retail stores in the United States .
U.S. stocks plunge as investors lock in profits from Tuesday 's rally and digest more poor economic news .
--------------------------------
2008-12-01
In the midst of a global financial crisis , the world has come to China 's doorstep seeking leadership .
Leadership means setting an example and often entails political or economic sacrifice at home for the greater good abroad .
Our lack of good governance domestically has increased our vulnerability to food and product safety crises and precipitated a global financial crisis .
The global financial crisis , for example , has sparked calls for Beijing to take a greater stake in the International Monetary Fund .
In addition to developing the political capacity for leadership , the time Beijing spends getting its house in order would allow China to develop the economic wherewithal to lead .
The Brazilian auto industry 's ability to weather the downturn will test the assertions of those who say the country 's burgeoning and diversifying economy is better prepared to fend off a U.S.-generated crisis than in earlier years .
Yet all this tinkering at the margins has failed to reassure the Chinese people , or many outside the country , that the government has a clear plan for its political and economic future .
--------------------------------
2008-10-03
The bad economic news has rattled investors on Wall Street , even as Congress considers a $ 700 billion bailout of the teetering U.S. financial system .
The head of the National Urban League is calling on Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. to refute statements by conservative politicians and pundits that subprime mortgages provided to minorities led to the financial crisis and a $ 700 billion federal rescue of Wall Street .
And if the financial bailout package is defeated , the rate could go as high as 10 percent , Behravesh said .
In a strongly worded letter to Paulson this week , Marc H. Morial said Paulson has " an obligation to correct the misinformation that is spread concerning the root cause of the current financial crisis .
For years , many in the financial sector have been operating on ( actually , buying and selling )
Contrast that with the " financial sector " and its egregiously unsound business practices .
The economic slowdown will probably cause unemployment to spike .
--------------------------------
2008-10-06
Coming on top of all these challenges , the financial turmoil is bound to intensify skepticism about markets .
( Cnbc ) Washington Post columnist Steven Pearlstein says his columns last year about a then-looming crisis were often dismissed .
The claim that the financial crisis reflects Bush-McCain deregulation is not only nonsense .
" Post business columnist Steven Pearlstein , who won a Pulitzer Prize for columns last year warning about the magnitude of the coming crisis , says he was often dismissed as a pro-regulation zealot or gadfly critic of Alan Greenspan .
So blaming deregulation for the financial mess is misguided .
" It is not easy for journalists to take on the masters of the financial universe , especially when the market is going up and everyone is happy .
" We all failed , " CNBC correspondent Charlie Gasparino says of news outlets missing the danger signs of the current economic crisis .
--------------------------------
2008-10-08
But countries need both to do more and to avoid gaps in their rescue programs by agreeing on how to handle cross-border loans and financial institutions that operate across jurisdictions .
While the consequences of financial crises are clearly international , the regulation of finance remains almost wholly national .
The United States , European Union and some others are moving rapidly to shore up their financial institutions .
McCain used the debate to promote another approach to solving the economic crisis , saying he would have the government buy up bad mortgages and renegotiate them at the current lower housing values , thereby allowing struggling homeowners to remain in their homes .
Although the Europeans rebuffed a recent U.S. initiative for a cooperative strategy and are having trouble getting their region-wide act together , it is too late to assign blame over responsibility for the crisis , within or among countries .
The Obama campaign called the mortgage idea " old news , " saying that a similar Treasury Department program is already underway as part of the economic rescue package and that Obama backed it .
Global oversight of both financial regulation and currencies can no longer be neglected .
--------------------------------
2008-10-09
Obama claims that " deregulation of the financial system , " championed by McCain , led to the economic crisis .
The financial crisis had its origins in an era of cheap credit that helped inflate housing prices .
On Thursday came the worst shock so far : The government seized the country 's largest bank , completing the emergency takeover of virtually the entire financial system .
Now we are facing more than just the adjustments of global imbalances problem since these imbalances have led to problems in our financial institutions .
If countries tackled these three items we would put the financial institutions back on a sounder footing and they could get lending going again , which would get consumers spending again and businesses investing again .
" Only a restoration of the system of checks and balances that once protected the American investor , and that has seriously deteriorated over the past 10 years , can restore the confidence that makes financial markets work , " McCain said in a 2002 speech . "
Thursday , October 9 , 2008 ; 2:00 PM Global financial stability has taken a turn for the worse in recent weeks , with potentially detrimental effects on economies around the world .
--------------------------------
2008-09-11
McCain went on to compare the current crisis in the financial markets with the attacks of Sept. 11 and called on politicians to draw on the bipartisan spirit created during those times in order to solve the economic problems of the country today . "
Following September 11th , our national leaders came together at a time of crisis , " McCain said .
McCain went on to compare the current crisis in the financial markets with the attacks of Sept. 11 and called on politicians to draw on the bipartisan spirit created during those times in order to solve the economic problems of the country today .
Following September 11th , our national leaders came together at a time of crisis , " McCain said .
The economic slowdown after Sept. 11 ?
Feinberg , who previously managed the government 's efforts to compensate the families of those killed in the Sept. 11 attacks , will control compensation at seven firms that have received large federal bailouts , including Citigroup , Bank of America , American International Group , General Motors , Chrysler as well as Chrysler Financial and GMAC , which provide loans to auto customers .
--------------------------------
2008-10-18
There are two financial sectors where more extensive regulation might have made a difference .
If ever there was a company built to withstand the global financial crisis , Boeing might be it .
The only significant financial deregulation in the past three decades applied to commercial banks .
The savings-and-loan industry was subject to extensive regulation in the 1970s , but that did not prevent the subsequent crisis .
I hasten to add that had both financial sectors been subject to regulation ,
Regulation in itself is a weak defense against financial crises .
Lehman Brothers files for bankruptcy protection after other financial firms demand cash to protect their positions .
--------------------------------
2008-10-24
Instead of flexing their financial muscle abroad , cash-rich oil exporters have been forced to bolster institutions at home , spending billions of dollars to prop up banks , currencies , stock markets and other aspects of their economies .
The former chairman of the Federal Reserve said the crisis had shaken his very understanding of how markets work , and agreed that certain financial derivatives should be regulated -- an idea he had long resisted .
Russia 's and Kazakhstan 's financial reserves are big enough , for now , to stave off the kind of crisis that shook both nations in 1998 .
Kazakhstan has raided its once sacrosanct national oil fund to bolster banks that borrowed from abroad ; Iran , which drained much of its rainy day fund to pump up its economy even before oil prices fell , is now having trouble financing oil and gas development projects ; Venezuela might run a deficit to pay for massive social spending ; Mexico has spent billions of dollars defending the peso ; and Russia , Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates have dipped into their cash hoards to rescue domestic financial institutions .
An oil worker in Saudi Arabia , which has dipped into its cash hoards to rescue domestic financial institutions .
Waxman asked whether the former chairman was wrong to consistently oppose regulating the multitrillion dollar derivative market that has contributed to the financial crisis .
Yesterday , PNC Financial Services Group agreed to buy the bank for $ 5.2 billion in PNC stock , paying $ 2.23 per National City share , and $ 384 million in cash .
--------------------------------
2008-11-08
In cio Lula da Silva told international finance ministers Saturday that developing countries must be given a greater role in finding solutions to the world 's financial crisis .
Saturday 's financial summit in Washington will be a good thing in itself : After years of " G-7 " and " G-8 " meetings , the new " G-20 " format will give most of the key emerging economies seats at the world 's top table .
--------------------------------
2008-11-15
World economic leaders will gather in Washington Saturday for a summit to address the global financial crisis .
But many government and private terrorism experts say the financial crisis has given al-Qaeda an opening , and judging from public statements and intercepted communications , senior al-Qaeda leaders are elated by the West 's economic troubles , which they regard as a vindication of their efforts and a sign of the superpower 's weakness .
Intelligence officials are warning that the deepening global financial crisis could weaken fragile governments in the world 's most dangerous areas and undermine the ability of the United States and its allies to respond to a new wave of security threats .
One official accused Zoellick of trying to ensure that the major decisions on the financial crisis would be made by the less unwieldy Group of 20 nations , which met in Washington on Nov. 15 to try to coordinate international response to the meltdown .
A protracted financial crisis could threaten the survival of friendly regimes from Pakistan to the Middle East while forcing Western nations to cut spending on defense , intelligence and foreign aid , the sources said .
The crisis could also accelerate the shift to a more Asia-centric globe , as rising powers such as China gain more leverage over international financial institutions and greater influence in world capitals .
The underlying problems and trends -- especially regional instability and the waning influence of the West -- were already well established , but they are now " being accelerated by the current global financial crisis , " the nation 's top intelligence official , Director of National Intelligence Mike McConnell , said in a recent speech .
--------------------------------
2008-11-21
It 's everything you need to know about domestic and economic policy ( and some stuff you do n't ) .
Dubai 's Eye-Popping Resort Debuts Despite Crisis Globe in a growing financial meltdown ?
Barack Obama has selected New York Federal Reserve Bank President Timothy F. Geithner as Treasury secretary , handing the post to a primary architect of the Bush administration 's response to the financial crisis , according to Democratic and industry officials yesterday .
" Citigroup 's executives launched a fierce campaign yesterday to convince investors and analysts , government officials , and even their own employees that the company is in a strong position to weather the economic crisis .
--------------------------------
2008-11-22
Federal regulators are watching the situation and are in contact with the company 's executives but are not taking an active role , believing that Citigroup is in much stronger financial condition than banks that have recently collapsed , people familiar with the matter said .
Summers instead will go to the White House and serve as a senior economic adviser to Obama , according to a senior Democratic official familiar with the matter .
Joining Summers in the White House would be Jason Furman , 38 , as a top economic adviser ; Peter R. Orszag , 39 , as White House budget director ; and Austan Goolsbee , 39 , on the president 's Council of Economic Advisers , sources familiar with the matter said .
At 47 , he is the same age as Obama and would represent a generational change in the highest levels of Washington economic policymaking , heading a remarkably young team of White House economic advisers tasked with sorting out one of the worst financial messes since the Great Depression .
Citigroup executives have launched a campaign to convince investors and analysts that the company is in a strong position to weather the economic crisis .
As for the timing , this source said , " Everything has been accelerated on the economic front because of the news of the last few months " but not in reaction to any specific market trends this week .
The government remains committed to preventing the collapse of any large financial institution , those sources said , speaking on condition of anonymity because they are not authorized to speak publicly .
--------------------------------
2008-12-10
Unable to Escape Global Crisis , South American Nations Take Financial Action
Then there was anger that the world 's financial system was being run by apparent gamblers from the same powerful countries that have always lectured South America on the need to be prudent and honest .
In Venezuela , where the price of oil has fallen to less than $ 35 a barrel from $ 140 in July , President Hugo Ch vez has said his government would cut the budget , including officials ' salaries , in response to the crisis .
A consultancy based in Washington , PFC Energy , said Venezuela needs to have oil prices above $ 95 a barrel to maintain its economic stability .
Argentina 's trouble securing loans to boost government spending has forced it to resort to taking money from the once-private pension system , which amounts to " redirecting money that was already in the financial system , " said Federico Thomsen , a political and economic analyst in Buenos Aires .
" It serves political purposes for the government to show they are doing something during the crisis , but the truth is , I think the Argentine government can not do too much about it , " he said .
In Peru , Garc a had been optimistic about Peru 's ability to maintain its rapid growth through the financial crisis .
--------------------------------
2008-09-20
Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. has adapted the Treasury 's traditional powers to deal with the financial crisis .
" I am convinced that this bold approach will cost American families far less than the alternative -- a continuing series of financial institution failures and frozen credit markets , " Paulson said in a speech at the Treasury Department .
An interesting comparison can be made between Hurricane Katrina and the current financial crisis , which symbolically has now stranded a number of rich investors on the roofs of their mansions , crying out to the government to be rescued .
Debates about the competitiveness of U.S. financial markets will focus less on how little regulated they are and more on how much protection and transparency they offer to investors .
Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. acknowledged that the federal government 's previous policy of addressing corporate failures on a case-by-case basis had not stemmed the accelerating crisis .
Paulson and Bernanke held a morning conference call with more than 100 House Republicans , making the case for their plan and describing in " strong and serious " terms the dire situation facing the financial system , according to a participant on the call .
Government purchases of vast quantities of hard-to-sell assets from banks , investment banks and anyone else whose demise might threaten the financial system .
--------------------------------
2008-09-14
This whole financial market crisis happened 10 days ago !
The person who 10 days ago said the fundamentals of our economy are strong is NOW saying that the crisis is so huge that he has to stop his campaign to focus on the economy .
--------------------------------
2008-09-27
In response to the first question of the debate , Obama and McCain discarded the scheduled topic of foreign affairs and waded into a discussion of the nation 's financial crisis , with both saying they are optimistic that Congress will agree on a financial bailout plan in the coming days .
--------------------------------
2008-10-02
Crooked mortgage brokers , greedy investment bankers , oblivious rating agencies and gullible investors have all been faulted in the financial crisis , and there is bipartisan agreement that regulators were asleep at the switch .
The problem is that Wall Street and regulators relied on complex mathematical models that told financial institutions how much risk they were taking at any given time .
Financial systems overall have emergent properties that are not conspicuous in their individual components and that traditional risk management does not account for .
" Morial , a former mayor of New Orleans , said in an interview yesterday that the effort " to pin the subprime crisis on African Americans and Latinos " is a " big lie . "
--------------------------------
2008-10-05
Indeed , one of the factors that links 9\/11 , the war in Iraq and this financial crisis is a sense that all of them are tied to the world 's changing view of America -- a view that is growing darker .
The strongly pro-market Financial Times declared that we are at the end of the era of American " laissez-faire capitalism . "
We would , he added , need " to rebuild the entire global financial and monetary system from the bottom up , the way it was done at Bretton Woods after World War II . "
But the financial crisis will certainly touch many more people in many more countries than did 9\/11 .
Governments long criticized by the United States for intervening in their own economies were reveling in the spectacle of U.S. policymakers wading into their own financial markets in ways that even some socialist leaders would never have dreamt of .
And it 's a world in which that anger is likely to keep growing , because there are other dimensions of this crisis that suggest it could have a broader impact than any financial crisis in three-quarters of a century : This is only the tip of the iceberg .
That 's because while 9\/11 changed the way we view the world , the current financial crisis has changed the way the world views us .
--------------------------------
2008-10-10
Since the 1930s , U.S. banks were the flagships of American economic might , and emulation by other nations of the fiercely free-market financial system in the United States was expected and encouraged .
But the market turmoil that is draining the nation 's wealth and has upended Wall Street now threatens to put the banks at the heart of the U.S. financial system at least partly in the hands of the government .
Making Sense of the Global Financial Crisis Pedestrians are reflected on an electric market board in Tokyo showing the Japanese stock 's 974.12-point fall in Tokyo , Friday , Oct. 10 , 2008 .
In this global economy , financial markets have no boundaries .
In recent weeks , we 've seen a growing financial crisis that 's threatening not only banks and businesses , but your economic security , as well .
Given that the United States has held itself up as a global economic model , the change could shift the balance of how governments around the globe conduct free enterprise .
Friday , October 10 , 2008 ; 12:00 PM U.S. stocks continued a relentless sell off today as fears of global recession continue to overtake government efforts to address the financial crisis .
--------------------------------
2008-10-12
Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi , right , gestures as he arrives at the financial crisis summit gathering Eurogroup heads of state and government at the Elysee Palace in Paris , Sunday , Oct. 12 , 2008 .
Both are used , but borrowing ( using complex financial instruments ) is getting out of hand , and tax cuts need to be used cyclically which means to not use them all the time , but sometimes , in response to certain economic conditions .
-- Governments around the world took unprecedented steps Sunday to rescue the global financial system , with major European powers unveiling a united plan to prevent further bank failures while Australia and New Zealand moved to calm panicked investors by guaranteeing deposits before stock markets opened in Asia .
Boykin Curry , a New York fund manager , points out that " 30 percent of S&P 500 profits last year were earned by financial firms , and U.S. consumers were spending $ 800 billion more than they earned every year .
The monetary authorities also need to remain committed to pumping liquidity into the financial system as long as credit markets and interbank lending remain weak .
The global financial outlook grows more dire by the day : The United States has been forced to shore up Wall Street , and European governments are bailing out numerous commercial banks .
The financial firm T. Rowe Price found that in the past five bear markets going back to 1976 , the longest it took for stocks to recover from their peak and then provide a 10 percent annual compound return was eight years .
--------------------------------
2008-10-13
With the newly decisive moves , other major nations are catching up to or surpassing the United States in sculpting a response to the crisis , which crashed stock markets last week and is threatening a broader collapse of the world 's interconnected banking system .
Washington Post Book Club : Friedman , Ehrenreich , Singletary on the Financial Crisis
By Shailagh Murray and Paul Kane TOLEDO , Ohio -- Determined to keep the campaign spotlight on the economy , Sen. Barack Obama added $ 60 billion in new tax breaks and other benefits to his economic stimulus plan , and urged Congress to act quickly after the election to provide middle-class relief .
In a momentous meeting yesterday afternoon in Washington , Paulson , flanked by top financial regulators , told the executives of nine leading banks that they needed to participate in the program for the good of the national economy , two industry sources said on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly .
This is not an economic policy ; this is pandering with empty promises that are , at best , going to accomplish nothing and , more likely , only going to hurt the nation in the end .
Forcing banks to hold on to mortgages that should have been in foreclosure months ago just prolongs the debt\/credit crisis , and cutting taxes and breaking the cookie jar of retirement funds is no way to cut back and save for the future .
Senator Obama knows that the economy is going to need economic stimulus to get out of recession .
--------------------------------
2008-10-14
The U.S. government is dramatically escalating its response to the financial crisis by planning to invest $ 250 billion in the country 's banks , forcing nine of the largest to accept a Treasury stake in what amounts to a partial nationalization .
Fears about the global crisis helped Prime Minister Stephen Harper 's Conservative Party gain seats in Tuesday 's vote .
no matter what Paulson did or did n't do , thanks to the incredible ineptitude of Wall Street and the nation 's financial regulators over the past few years , whether an insolvent and mismanaged investment bank was rescued or not .
I hope you wo n't think it petty to point out that some of the people who this past weekend were complaining that the Treasury secretary was being too timid in his response to the financial crisis were some of the same people who , three weeks ago , were complaining about his audacity in demanding a " $ 700 billion blank check .
After being steeped in frustration and fear for nearly two weeks , investors and traders seemed more confident in global efforts to stem the financial crisis .
The test of the market rebound 's significance will be whether banks remain reluctant to lend to one another -- the crux of the current financial crisis -- and that will take more time to determine , they said .
The truth is we were going to have a serious financial crisis
--------------------------------
2008-10-19
But will its global status and role really , as the third theme claims , be strengthened by this Western economic crisis ?
His announcement means that Bush , who has already presided over the largest U.S. intervention into the financial markets in 75 years , may also leave a lasting imprint on the structure of the world economy .
Leaders from the United States , European countries and other economic powers gathered in Geneva this summer but could n't agree on a range of issues , including strengthening the global regulatory framework and agricultural tariffs .
The last big financial crisis -- in fact the biggest stock and real estate collapse -- to have occurred in any large industrial economy since 1929 was the one that began in Japan in 1990 - 91 .
Thanks to its capital controls , its savings surplus and its state-controlled banking system , China is well insulated from the Western financial crisis ( unlike India , where companies ' foreign debts are high and private banks are getting squeezed ) .
Barroso , speaking at Camp David , agreed that a " new global financial order " was needed .
The meetings would involve emerging economic powers previously excluded from similar talks as well as those that have dominated the global financial system over the last half century , White House officials said .
--------------------------------
2008-10-22
During times of economic crisis , some may be tempted to turn inward -- focusing on our problems here at home , while ignoring our interests around the world , " Bush said at a White House summit on international development in Washington .
The Web commentary was one of several posted by Taliban or al-Qaeda-allied groups in recent days that trumpeted the global financial crisis and predicted further decline for the United States and other Western powers .
The Bush administration , which has garnered accolades for dramatic increases in U.S. international aid programs , cut its foreign aid in 2007 by 3.5 percent , to $ 21.7 billion , according to the Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development .
" The two major U.S. presidential candidates , Sens. John McCain ( R-Ariz . ) and Barack Obama ( D-Ill . ) , have suggested that the financial crisis would not curtail their ambitions for foreign aid .
The United Nations estimates that , even before the market crisis , rising food prices had pushed an additional 75 million people into chronic hunger , bringing the total to 925 million after years of decline .
Bush has argued against cutting such aid amid the global financial crisis .
Both the Bush administration and the two major presidential campaigns have rejected any suggestion that the economic downturn will undermine the country 's fight against al-Qaeda .
--------------------------------
2008-10-21
According to many Republican members of Congress , banking industry lobbyists and financial pundits , the Wall Street meltdown would not be nearly as bad as it is but for the baleful impact of " mark-to-market " accounting rules .
These are national standards , adopted in the wake of the savings and loan debacle of the 1980s , that require banks to carry certain financial assets on their books at the current market price .
INEVITABLY , PERHAPS , the deepening financial crisis has spawned a search for scapegoats and quick fixes .
In recent weeks , he has focused his message on the administration 's handling of the nation 's financial crisis , suggesting that the Treasury Department has been more interested in " bailing out the banks " than helping struggling homeowners avoid foreclosure .
To suspend or abandon mark-to-market now , in the middle of a panic , would simply deepen the confusion and suspicion that are already crippling the financial system .
Actually , complaints about the rule probably overstate its impact , since financial institutions only have to use it for securities they intend to trade .
Eight years later , this time running as the Republican presidential nominee , the senator from Arizona is again criticizing Bush and his financial policies , as he renews his efforts to demonstrate that he would represent a departure from the current administration .
--------------------------------
2008-10-23
Thursday , October 23 , 2008 ; Page A01 Employers are moving to aggressively cut jobs and reduce costs in the face of the nation 's economic crisis , preparing for what many fear will be a long and painful recession .
But the deterioration of the job market is now emerging as a driver of economic distress , according to a wide range of data and anecdotal reports from corporate America .
Rather , firms simply do n't know whether their own customers will be affected by the financial crisis ; as a result , they want to hold their breath and delay hiring decisions until they have a better sense of the future .
The nation has shed jobs every month this year , but at a slower overall pace than in past economic downturns .
With workers losing their leverage to negotiate raises , there could be greater downward pressure on wages , which in turn could drive down overall economic growth .
Yesterday , crude oil prices briefly touched a 16-month low before closing at $ 67.84 a barrel , up $ 1.09 but less than half their July peak as traders worried that a global economic slowdown will shrink demand for petroleum products .
Alan Greenspan , once viewed as the infallible architect of U.S. prosperity , was called on the carpet yesterday , pilloried by a congressional committee for decisions that contributed to the financial crisis devastating world markets .
--------------------------------
2008-10-25
Now that those riches are quickly disappearing , some analysts are blaming them for propagating the high-risk culture that led to the crisis on Wall Street .
How much are they to blame for the global financial crisis ?
Those now -defunct investment banks and other financial institutions are guilty as well .
That said , they could probably use more oversight , said John Jacquemin , chief executive of Mooring Financial Corp. , which has a hedge fund .
Cleveland is still home to another large regional lender , KeyCorp , but the loss of one such venerable institution was a blow to the city and is emblematic of the way the financial crisis is rippling through communities .
--------------------------------
2008-11-02
The Treasury Dept. says on Sunday that it will tap Neel Kashkari , an assistant secretary of international affairs and a former Goldman Sachs banker , to oversee the government 's $ 700 billion financial rescue program .
Belgium , the Netherlands and Luxembourg agree late Sunday to pump $ 11.2 billion into Fortis , a major Belgian financial services conglomerate , in exchange for 49 percent ownership of several Fortis units .
--------------------------------
2008-11-09
" This is a global crisis and demands global solutions , " Lula said in opening remarks at a meeting of the Group of 20 , an organization of major industrialized and developing nations .
Brazil believes countries must avoid the temptation of resorting to financial and trade protectionism as a mechanism to overcome the crisis , " he said .
Spending a fraction of the war 's cost -- my estimate places the total at $ 3 trillion for our entire economy -- on investments within the United States would help reduce the deficit and boost economic growth at home .
The G-20 began in 1999 during the Asian financial crisis , but the group 's meetings , notwithstanding the emergency session in Washington scheduled for this week , have not included presidents and prime ministers .
Brazil and many other developing countries want to be included in meetings of the largest industrial nations , where the recent crisis originated .
The U.S. financial sector , once the emblem of our economic success , has failed us .
That 's because President Bush will bequeath him a national debt -- $ 10.5 trillion and rising -- that has almost doubled since he took office , even before you factor in the full costs of the financial bailout and the Medicare prescription benefit , as well as the price tag for providing for the hundreds of thousands of returning Iraq war veterans .
--------------------------------
2008-11-12
The leaders also need to pledge at least $ 500 billion to augment the resources of the International Monetary Fund so it can meet the potential needs of developing countries hammered by the crisis .
The most obvious is financial regulation , which clearly broke down in the United States and numerous other countries ; there is an important international dimension because of the cross-border nature of many financial institutions and market instruments .
When the finance ministers of the world 's top economies convened in Washington last month , around the annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund , they developed a remarkably successful international strategy for responding to the financial crisis , which had reached panic proportions in the markets .
Leaders must , for example , avoid the temptation to agonize over who caused the crisis and recognize that , while the United States was clearly at its center , there is plenty of blame to go around .
Another is the failure of the IMF , and its major member countries , to anticipate the crisis and to initiate preventive actions .
The final component of the G-20 package should be the creation of working groups to address systemic issues that helped bring on the crisis , most of which require careful analysis and preparation before thoughtful action is feasible .
History may regard this weekend as the beginning of a transition in global economic power as well as a milestone in resolving the crisis of 2008 .
--------------------------------
2008-11-07
The French have been lobbying for a draft resolution endorsed last Friday by European leaders in Brussels that calls for global supervision of rating agencies , convergence of accounting standards , coordination of financial oversight across national boundaries , " codes of conduct to avoid excessive risk-taking in the financial sector , " and , finally , a leading role for the International Monetary Fund in overseeing the recovery and regulation package .
--------------------------------
2008-11-14
After the Asian financial crisis in 1998 , there was a lot of brave talk about updating the old Bretton Woods institutions , but petty politics and an improving economy got in the way , and nothing was ever done .
And now , through the marvels of global financial markets , they have spread their toxic culture and products to economies across the globe .
As they arrive in Washington , the challenge for global leaders is to find a way to tame a financial system that has not only corrupted American-style capitalism but also brought unwelcome instability to the global economy .
From the Latin American debt crisis of the 1980s to the Asian financial crisis of the 1990s to the Internet craze at the turn of the century to today 's economic conflagration , the past 20 years have provided ample evidence that uncontrolled flows of private capital have created massive booms and busts that have overwhelmed the financial system and destabilized the global economy .
It 's not only a decisive moment for the economy , but it 's the most decisive moment for American-style capitalism since July 1944 , when , after 22 days of negotiation at a remote lodge in the White Mountains of New Hampshire , leaders of 44 nations emerged with the blueprint for a new world financial order based on the principles of free markets , free trade and the free flow of capital .
Creating a new architecture and regulatory framework for the global financial system is complicated and wonky and wo n't win anyone the next election .
As he sees it , the current crisis does not reflect any fundamental flaw in the American model but instead results from individual failures by lenders , borrowers , financial firms and regulators that can be minimized in the future , not through more regulation but through smarter regulation .
--------------------------------
2008-11-20
Last night in Dubai , in the United Arab Emirates -- the Vegas of the Arab world -- the Atlantis Resort opened with a massive party that laughed at the current economic crisis .
--------------------------------
2008-11-17
The long arm of the global financial crisis reached down into Morena Parada 's preschool classroom , where a little girl named Joeli Arias-Lopez painted bright green and orange splotches on an oversize easel and pronounced it a house .
And with the economic downturn affecting everyone 's bottom line and donation habits , school officials do n't count on anyone else to pick up the slack .
" People think about the financial crisis , and they think about corporate executives , " said Barbara Fox Mason , the preschool 's director .
The rollout of the economic team is expected to take place in Chicago on Monday , according to a transition source who spoke on condition of anonymity because the announcements have not been made yet .
--------------------------------
2008-11-25
One U.N. official said Zoellick has been pressing world leaders to restrict deliberations on the financial crisis to the G-20 countries .
Ban had envisioned the Doha meeting as a forum that would allow a broader group of countries , including some of the poorest , to have a say in the way the economic powerhouses respond to the crisis .
He hoped the leaders of the main financial institutions would help him drive home the message that donor countries must not reduce development assistance , officials said .
But they will send senior advisers and remain committed to the goals of the conference , which will be attended by all of the 192 U.N. members , said officials from the two financial institutions .
But the Doha review conference comes as the world is facing its worst economic crisis in a generation .
In a letter to G-20 members , Zoellick proposed they set up a steering group of finance ministers , drawn from top industrialized and developed nations that control most of the world 's GDP and energy production , to manage the global response to the crisis .
Donor countries acknowledge that " there is a moral obligation not to cut back because this crisis , after all , was not made in the poorest countries in the world , " said Kemal Dervis , executive director of the U.N. Development Program .
--------------------------------
2008-12-05
The effort , outlined by President Nicolas Sarkozy , was the latest in a series of programs undertaken by European governments to mitigate economic fallout from the financial crisis that migrated across the Atlantic in September , shaking the continent 's banking system and strangling hopes for growth .
Sarkozy delivered his speech next to a Renault plant , signifying his recognition that the auto industry has been hit particularly hard since the financial crisis dried up credit , imperiled jobs and sapped consumer confidence .
" Our response to the crisis is investment , " Sarkozy said .
--------------------------------
2008-12-04
France Plans $ 33 Billion in Economic Stimulus ; Central Banks Cut Rates PARIS , Dec. 4 -- Facing a drastic slowdown , France announced a $ 33 billion economic stimulus plan Thursday , including cash payments to the poor , a bigger rebate on new-car purchases and a speedup in high-cost public works projects .
Also Thursday , the European Central Bank , with the same objective in mind , announced in Frankfurt that its prime interest rate would be shaved by three-quarters of a percentage point , to 2.5 percent , the largest cut in its history and the second since the crisis erupted .
The Finance Ministry 's National Institute for Statistics and Economic Studies reported Thursday that unemployment rose by a tenth of a percentage point in the third quarter and now affects 7.3 percent of the workforce in mainland France .
--------------------------------
2008-12-07
Then the global financial crisis hit , the country went bust , and almost overnight the Icelandic currency , the krona , lost half its value and prices of everything from boots to beer returned to earth .
The Blue Lagoon , a large hot spring powered by the island 's potent geothermal energy , had its busiest November ever , despite Iceland 's worst financial crisis in modern history .
--------------------------------
2008-12-09
RIO DE JANEIRO , Dec. 9 -- It began with denial , as the leaders of several South American countries insisted their high-stepping economies could weave their way through the financial troubles shaking the United States .
--------------------------------
2008-12-08
On Monday , Alan Garc a , the Peruvian president who was talking about a " crisis of prosperity " as recently as last month , announced a $ 3.4 billion bailout package to help a national economy that has been among the hemisphere 's fastest growing in recent years .
--------------------------------
2008-09-07
The current crisis , at bottom , is about a serious loss of confidence in U.S. financial markets .
THE NEW PARADIGM FOR FINANCIAL MARKETS The Credit Crisis of 2008
It is no surprise to see someone like Soros urging effective regulation of financial market risk .
A 360 Degree Look at the Subprime Mortgage Implosion , and How to Avoid The Next Financial Crisis By Mark Zandi
For the financial markets , " Smick argues , " the world is curved .
$ 24.99 Financial Shock by economist Mark Zandi is a clear primer on how and why the crisis occurred .
All four authors agree on the growing vulnerability of American financial well-being .
--------------------------------
2008-09-08
--------------------------------
2008-09-09
--------------------------------
2008-09-10
--------------------------------
