2010-01-22
Millions of people remain in need after Haiti 's earthquake , and plans are being made to house 400,000 survivors in new tented villages outside the capital .
the single Prime Minister Gordon Brown said : " Simon Cowell can make a huge amount of money to help the people of Haiti . "
Re-opening Haiti 's seaport in the capital , Port-au-Prince , is seen as vital to the international aid effort .
The Disasters Emergency Committee is co-ordinating an appeal to help the people of Haiti There are 13 charities involved including the British Red Cross , Islamic Relief and World Vision Donate via the DEC website or by calling 0370 60 60 900
" We do not recognize the picture of the aid response in Haiti painted by the Lancet , " he said .
More than half of Haiti 's nine million people are thought to practice some form of Voodoo .
" Haiti 's government called off the search for survivors last Friday ( 22 January ) and is now concentrating on getting aid to people who need it .
Simon and the stars are hoping to make the single in just 48 hours so they can send the money to Haiti quickly .
--------------------------------
2010-01-12
About 45,000-50 ,000 people have died since Tuesday 's 7.0 magnitude earthquake hit Haiti 's capital , Port-au-Prince and 300,000 have been made homeless , according to UN estimates .
Between 100,000 and 200,000 people are thought to have died in the devastating earthquake which struck Haiti on 12 January .
Estimates of how many people died following the 7.0 magnitude earthquake on Tuesday have varied .
" We have at least 300 people in a 100 bed hospital " Aid workers helping victims of Tuesday 's earthquake have been sharing their accounts with us .
The 7.0-magnitude quake , Haiti 's worst in two centuries , struck south of the capital , Port-au-Prince , on Tuesday .
Haiti 's Prime Minister Jean-Max Bellerive says he believes more than 100,000 people may have been killed by Tuesday 's 7.0-magnitude earthquake .
Downing Street said more than 60 Britons were safe and well after Tuesday 's 7.0-magnitude earthquake .
Survivors pulled from UN headquarters in Haiti Rescuers have begun pulling people from the wreckage of the UN headquarters in Port-au-Prince , following Tuesday 's devastating earthquake .
--------------------------------
2010-01-18
Up to 10,000 US troops will be on the ground or off the coast of Haiti by Monday to help deal with the earthquake aid effort , US defense officials have said .
Actor Mark Wahlberg said : " Haiti has been one of the poorest countries in the world for such a long time .
The EU has pledged more than 400m euros ( # 354m ) in emergency aid for Haiti , as rescuers battle to help survivors of last week 's devastating earthquake .
Britons have donated # 23m to the Haiti earthquake appeal , the Disasters and Emergency Committee ( DEC ) has said .
French rescuers are among teams from many nations in Haiti
considering the fact that help will not get to Africa as fast as it got to Haiti .
The British government has said it will treble its aid to Haiti to # 20m ( $ 32m ) .
The earthquake killed tens of thousands in Haiti , with many bodies still stuck in the remains of buildings .
--------------------------------
2010-01-15
It is feared thousands of people have died in an earthquake in Haiti .
The Disasters Emergency Committee ( DEC ) in the UK says it has raised # 2m ( $ 3.3 m ) in the first 36 hours since launching its appeal for Haiti - Queen Elizabeth II is among those to have made a donation .
Raymond Joseph , Haiti 's ambassador to the United States , tells the BBC World Service that he is still hearing reports about strong aftershocks in his country .
Or you could write a cheque to DEC Haiti Earthquake Appeal and send it to :
he was not at Port-au-Prince at the time I live in Haiti but was on a business trip to the United States .
But I am also proud that our government will do all it can to help the people in Haiti
" I have heard nothing from my friends in Haiti since the earthquake , " she said .
A national appeal for aid for the victims of the Haiti earthquake is to be launched this morning .
--------------------------------
2010-01-13
A huge earthquake has devastated the Caribbean country of Haiti , with thousands of people feared dead .
UN chief Ban Ki-moon says the UN is mobilising an emergency response team and releasing $ 10m ( # 6m ) from its emergency relief fund for victims of the Haiti quake .
He and Haiti 's ambassador to Mexico , Robert Manuel , both said that President Rene Preval and his wife had survived the quake .
Rapper Wyclef Jean , who was born in Haiti , tells CNN he was on the phone to a friend in the country when the quake struck . "
Peter Stevenson is Operations Commander for the UK 's International Search and Rescue Team Emergency crews , charities and the UK government are co-ordinating efforts to help with the rescue operation in Haiti after it was hit by an earthquake .
1328 UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon says the earthquake has had a " devastating impact " on Port-au-Prince but that other areas of Haiti are largely unaffected .
Aid is being sent in to the area , and several countries have offered money to help Haiti .
He said that American officials were arriving in Haiti Wednesday .
--------------------------------
2010-01-20
The Government and people of my country , Guyana has made numerous donations and we are hoping to send off aid to Haiti in this week .
Michael says his jerrycan can provide over 15,000 litres of drinking water Haiti , the poorest nation in the Americas , and its 10 million residents were devastated by the earthquake .
Rescuers applaud as the children are pulled alive from the ruins A strong aftershock has rocked Haiti , sending screaming people running into the streets , eight days after another quake devastated the country .
A Cambridge-based charity is helping to re-home children orphaned by the earthquake in Haiti .
Text GIVE to 70077 to donate # 5 to the DEC for the Haiti earthquake appeal .
US troops are stepping up aid operations across Haiti , a week after the devastating earthquake .
I would like to find a place specifically for the Haiti people only .
Aid groups have complained of delays getting aid to survivors A Royal Fleet Auxiliary ship carrying aid supplies is to be sent to Haiti to help with the earthquake relief effort .
--------------------------------
2010-01-19
people may have died in Haiti as a result of the devastating earthquake that struck last Tuesday .
EU aid to Haiti is channelled through the UN , which is co-ordinating the relief effort on the ground .
More than 2,000 US Marines are set to join 1,000 US troops on the ground in Haiti , as aid efforts gather pace a week after a devastating earthquake .
The British government has said it will treble its aid to Haiti to # 20m ( $ 32m ) .
The former US President , Bill Clinton , has been in Haiti watching the international aid operation for himself at Port-au-Prince airport .
Milton Keynes Aid worker Chris Webster has been told to prepare for the worst The United Nations says it 's sending an extra 3,500 troops to Haiti , a week after the devastating earthquake hit the Caribbean country .
Aid agencies say they fear tens of thousands of children have been orphaned by the earthquake in Haiti .
The director of the main port in Haiti says the bulk of the aid should be arriving by sea but the earthquake devastated the harbor .
--------------------------------
2010-01-14
Officials at the UN say between 100 and 150 people from its 9,000-strong peacekeeping mission in Haiti are still missing after the earthquake .
Haiti Twenty-four hours after the earthquake , and we flew into Port-au-Prince .
The Disasters Emergency Committee is co-ordinating an appeal to help the people of Haiti There are 13 charities involved including the British Red Cross , Islamic Relief and World Vision Donate via the DEC website or by telephoning 0370 60 60 900
A 71-strong team of British firefighters is due in Haiti to help rescue efforts .
How can a country as poor as Haiti survive an earthquake disaster ?
People in the UK have said they have had trouble contacting their relatives in Haiti .
Matthew Price describes the " grim " scenes at a Port-au-Prince hospital 1210 David Darg , an aid worker with Operation Blessing International on his way to Haiti from Miami , tells the BBC
It 's the worst quake to hit Haiti in 200 years and has been described by one official there as a " catastrophe " .
--------------------------------
2010-01-21
US marines are among the thousands of Americans helping with aid and security in earthquake-hit Haiti .
The aid arrived as the Disasters Emergency Committee said its Haiti appeal had now raised # 38m in the UK .
One week on , it is impossible to see how Haiti can recover from this earthquake .
Earlier , Haiti 's president said aid delivery was the main problem .
Officials in Haiti say the number of people killed in the quake could be as high as 200,000 .
Marathon music event to help Haiti earthquake appeal A Haitian woman is helped from the rubble of a damaged building
He said they planned to start using two other airports , at Jacmel in Haiti and San Isidro in the neighbouring Dominican Republic .
Mr Peachy of Christian Aid said it had been impossible to contact his colleagues in Haiti for the first 48 hours after the quake .
--------------------------------
2010-01-16
There are mounting security concerns in Haiti 's earthquake-hit capital as distribution problems continue to hamper getting aid to survivors .
Meanwhile , US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said she would travel to Haiti on Saturday .
The Disasters Emergency Committee is co-ordinating an appeal to help the people of Haiti There are 13 charities involved including the British Red Cross , Islamic Relief and World Vision Donate via the DEC website or by telephoning 0370
The UK 's ambassador to Haiti and the Dominican Republic Steven Fisher said some British citizens there had still not yet been contacted .
Matt Frei reports on the terrible aftermath of the earthquake in Haiti , as many flee the devastated capital , Port-au-Prince .
Essex Mr Fisher , the UK 's ambassador for Haiti and the Dominican Republic , described the situation in Port-au-Prince as " horrific " and said there was " concern " about the safety of aid workers .
The DEC appeal for victims of the earthquake in Haiti
Haiti was " well versed " in disaster , having had four hurricanes in 2008 , but was in " urgent need " of more aid , she said .
--------------------------------
2010-01-23
More than 100 of the world 's biggest stars took part in a charity event to raise money for the millions of people affected by the Haiti earthquake .
Earlier , Haiti 's government said search-and-rescue operations had ended .
The BBC has started broadcasting radio programs in Creole to earthquake-stricken Haiti .
" Two people have been rescued after spending 10 days under rubble following the devastating Haiti earthquake .
The money-raising concert included performances from New York , Los Angeles , Haiti and London , where Beyonce sang her hit Halo , accompanied on the piano by Coldplay 's Chris Martin .
The new 20-minute daily program in Creole is called Connexion Haiti .
when trapped Rescue efforts have been declared officially over in Haiti , 11 days after the earthquake .
Fantastic Mr Fox star George Clooney hosted and helped to organise the Hope For Haiti Now telethon , which was broadcast all over the world .
--------------------------------
