2010-04-20
The oil began leaking into the Gulf of Mexico on 20 April when the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig , leased to BP , exploded , killing 11 workers .
The company 's stock has lost 40 percent of its value since the April 20 oil rig fire .
The well has been temporarily sealed for two weeks after spilling up to 60,000 barrels of oil a day into the sea since 20 April , when an explosion on a drilling rig off Louisiana killed 11 workers and triggered the leak .
Some 266,000 barrels of oil had been collected by skimmers out of a total of more than 6m barrels that had dispersed since the rig exploded on 20 April .
--------------------------------
2010-05-01
The sprawling oil slick has begun washing up on the Louisiana coast and is threatening three other states .
The environmental mess could eclipse the Exxon Valdez disaster , when an oil tanker spilled 11 million gallons off Alaska 's shores in 1989 .
The company said " it is unlikely that an accidental oil spill release would occur from the proposed activities .
Oil has been gushing unchecked from a ruptured deepwater well off Louisiana , pouring into the Gulf of Mexico at a rate of up to 5,000 barrels ( 210,000 gallons or 955,000 liters ) a day since last week , and so far efforts plug the leaks have failed .
--------------------------------
2010-04-22
April 22 - The Deepwater Horizon rig , valued at more than $ 560 million , sinks and a 5-mile-long oil slick forms .
An oil drilling rig that had burned for 36 hours in the Gulf of Mexico sank on Thursday as hopes dimmed for 11 missing workers and the risk of a major oil spill loomed , officials said .
BP 's market capitalization has fallen by around $ 65 billion since the Deepwater Horizon rig sank on April 22 after exploding two days earlier , unleashing a torrent of oil into the Gulf of Mexico .
The oil has been flowing since April 22 , when a drilling rig called the Deepwater Horizon blew up and sank 50 miles out in the Gulf .
--------------------------------
2010-04-29
Five times more oil a day than previously believed is spewing into the Gulf of Mexico from a blown-out well of a sunken drilling rig , the Coast Guard said .
Hutchinson said that while the effect on wildlife and the fragile ecosystem along the coastline remains the " area of biggest and immediate concern , " officials are hoping that the travel and tourism industries in the region will not also be devastated by the oil spill .
But officials warned that it may take 90 days to shut off the flow of leaking oil .
On Thursday , Obama also called the governors of the five Gulf Coast states , and Interior Secretary Ken Salazar met with oil and gas industry executives to appeal for ideas and help .
--------------------------------
2010-04-27
The underlying results were well ahead of forecasts but were overshadowed by concerns about an oil well in the Gulf of Mexico which is leaking 1,000 barrels per day of crude after the rig drilling it exploded and sank with the loss of 11 workers , who are now presumed dead .
oil company officials said it would take at least two to four weeks to get it under control .
BP said replacement cost net profit , which strips out unrealized gains related to rises in the value of inventories , was $ 5.60 billion in the quarter , up from $ 2.39 billion in the same period of 2009 , thanks to higher oil and gas prices .
Weathered oil is seen on the surface of the Gulf of Mexico near the coast of Louisiana .
--------------------------------
2010-05-02
President Obama warned Sunday that the vast oil spill nearing the Gulf coastline is a " potentially unprecedented " disaster , as he and other top administration officials defended the government 's response and pledged a " relentless " federal effort to clean up the slick .
Barack Obama flies to Louisiana as BP 's Deepwater Horizon oil spill spreads BP analysis of environmental impact on Gulf coast
At that rate , it would eclipse the 1989 Exxon Valdez tanker spill -- which dumped 11 million gallons off the Alaska coast -- as the worst U.S. oil disaster in history in a matter of weeks .
The Coast Guard and BP have said it 's nearly impossible to know exactly how much oil has gushed since the blast , though it has been roughly estimated to be at least 200,000 gallons a day .
--------------------------------
2010-04-21
Fire boat response crews battle the blazing remnants of the off shore oil rig Deepwater Horizon , off Louisiana , in this handout photograph taken on April 21 , 2010 and obtained on April 22 .
AP Apr. 21 : An oil slick is seen as the Deepwater Horizon oil rig burns in the Gulf of Mexico .
Rig sinks in Gulf of Mexico , oil spill risk looms Fire boat response crews battle the blazing remnants of the off shore oil rig Deepwater Horizon , off Louisiana , in this handout photograph taken on April 21 , 2010 and obtained on April 22 .
Fire boat response crews battle the blazing remnants of the off shore oil rig Deepwater Horizon , off Louisiana , in this April 21 , 2010 , handout file photo .
--------------------------------
2010-04-26
The US Coast Guard has described it as a " very serious spill " Robotic submersibles are being used to try to stop oil leaking into the Gulf of Mexico from a damaged well almost a mile ( 1.5 km ) below the surface .
Some 1,000 barrels ( 42,000 gallons ) of oil a day have been gushing from the well since a drilling rig exploded and sank off the Louisiana coast last week .
The ripple effects of last week 's offshore drilling rig explosion widened Monday as crude oil continued to spill into the Gulf of Mexico at a rate of about a thousand barrels a day and
The coastguard earlier said it had thought it was dealing only with a surface residual oil spill from the rig . "
--------------------------------
2010-04-30
BP Plc will compensate all those affected by an oil spill from one of its wells in the Gulf of Mexico , said its chief executive , who admitted that the disaster could hit plans to open new areas off the U.S. coast to drilling .
Despite today 's focus on the response to the the April 20 Gulf Coast oil rig explosion , Obama administration officials stress that federal agencies have been involved since the start .
In an afternoon news conference with Obama administration officials , Jindal said he was worried that miles of booms deployed offshore are " not effective " in preventing oil from damaging coastal areas , wildlife and the livelihoods of fishermen .
As many as 5,000 barrels of oil a day are thought to be spilling into the water , threatening US coastal areas .
--------------------------------
2010-04-23
No oil appeared to be leaking from a drilling rig that exploded and sank in the Gulf of Mexico , the Coast Guard said Friday , though officials were trying to contain what spilled after the blast and prevent any threat to the coast 's fragile ecosystem .
Stanley Murray , left , father of Chad Murray , who was rescued from the Deepwater Horizon oil rig that exploded in the Gulf of Mexico , and Christy Murray ,
BP PLC , which leased the rig and took the lead in the cleanup , said Friday it has activated an extensive oil spill response , including using remotely operated vehicles to assess the well and 32 vessels to mop up the spill .
The fire was out , but officials initially feared as much as 336,000 gallons of crude oil a day could be rising from the sea floor nearly 5,000 feet below .
--------------------------------
2010-04-25
High seas were forecast through Sunday and could push oil deep into the inlets , ponds , creeks and lakes that line the boot of southeastern Louisiana .
Gerald Herbert\/AP Underwater robots dived to the ocean floor yesterday in a new effort to staunch the 42,000 gallons of oil a day being pumped into the Gulf of Mexico in America 's worst offshore oil rig spill in 40 years .
Environmentalists said the rig explosion and oil spill should push the nation to develop new energy sources .
For days , the Coast Guard has said no oil appeared to be escaping from the well head on the ocean floor .
--------------------------------
2010-04-28
The Coast Guard and BP set fire to a portion of the crude oil floating in the Gulf of Mexico on Wednesday in a bid to limit the impact of a widening slick , which federal officials said could touch shore in parts of the Louisiana delta as early as Friday evening .
Ian D. MacDonald , an oceanography professor at Florida State University , said estimates from both Coast Guard charts and satellite images indicate that 8 million to 9 million gallons had spilled by April 28 .
Conditions will also allow for the first " controlled burn " of the massive oil slick since a 28-minute blaze on April 28 that removed thousands of gallons of fuel , officials said .
Coast Guard rescue following oil rig explosion in Gulf of Mexico
--------------------------------
2010-04-24
The Coast Guard discovered Saturday that oil is leaking from the damaged well that fed a massive rig that exploded this week off Louisiana 's coast , while bad weather halted efforts to clean up the mess that threatens the area 's fragile marine ecosystem .
The rainbow-colored sheen of oil stretched 20 miles by 20 miles on Saturday -- about 25 times larger than it appeared to be a day earlier , Landry said .
The US coastguard discovered the leaks on Saturday , two days after the Deepwater Horizon oil rig leased by BP sank off the coast of Louisiana .
" We thought what we were dealing with as of yesterday was a surface residual ( oil ) from the mobile offshore drilling unit , " Landry said .
--------------------------------
