2009-04-29
All deaths so far have been in Mexico , where 20 of the 149 reported fatalities have been confirmed to be from the H1N1 swine flu virus .
" Italian media still use " swine flu " but the country 's authorities refer to " the A\/H1N1 influenza virus . "
Does that shot contain any benefit against this year 's Swine Flu virus ?
Texas officials said a 22-month-old boy had died -- the first confirmed U.S. swine flu death -- while on a family visit from Mexico .
As for the BBC reporting on this swine flu outbreak , it has been thus far reasonable , keep up the good work .
--------------------------------
2009-05-01
The flu virus has killed up to 176 people in Mexico and since spread to the United States , where there has been one death .
On Friday , French Health Minister Roselyne Bachelot said two people were infected with swine flu , France 's first confirmed cases .
At least not yet , and U.S. pork producers are doing everything they can to make sure that the new H1N1 virus , known around the world as the " swine flu , " stays out of their herds .
Dr Baker is Honorary Secretary of Council to the RCGP Governments around the world are striving to contain a new flu virus suspected of killing more than 100 people in Mexico .
Analysis done so far suggests what they are dealing with is a mild virus and nowhere near as dangerous as the H5N1 avian flu strain that has caused scientists so much concern over the past decade .
--------------------------------
2009-05-02
flu kills hundreds of people in this country every year !
The number of confirmed cases of swine flu infection in Mexico now stands at more than 300 , officials say .
He said 16 deaths were confirmed as caused by the H1N1 flu and 85 were being tested .
I just would like to say well done to Hong Kong that acts more seriously and better than other countries to prevent spread of flu virus .
China suspended flights from Mexico on 2 May ; the day after the first confirmed case of swine flu in Asia was found in Hong Kong .
--------------------------------
2009-05-04
Another nine UK cases of swine flu have been confirmed , taking the total to 27 , the Health Protection Agency has said .
This is a mild flu and would have gone unnoticed but for the Mexican health ministers hysterical over playing the case
Scottish Health Secretary Nicola Sturgeon said there was one further probable swine flu case in Scotland , in addition to the four already confirmed .
In New York the UN secretary general , Ban Ki-moon , insisted that the World Health Organisation did not plan to raise its pandemic alert to the highest level , six , if the current outbreak of a deadly new strain of flu continued at its present level .
Swine flu has been confirmed as the cause of 26 deaths in Mexico and 701 people have been infected , Health Minister Jose Angel Cordova said on Monday .
--------------------------------
2009-04-28
U.S. health officials confirmed a total of 91 human cases of H1N1 swine flu across the country on Tuesday .
It is not correct to refer to it as swine flu because really that 's not what this is about , " he said .
Spain became the first country in Europe to confirm a case of swine flu when a man who returned from a trip to Mexico last week was found to have the virus .
There are 14 more people in Scotland showing potential symptoms , although not confirmed as having swine flu .
In the first confirmed cases in Britain , Scotland 's health minister said two people tested positive for swine flu and were being treated under isolation near Glasgow .
--------------------------------
2009-04-30
The H1N1 swine flu virus is spread by people , not pigs .
Manufacturers have started to take the first preparatory steps in developing a vaccine against the H1N1 swine flu virus that is being linked to the deaths of as many as 176 people in Mexico .
Health officials in the state of Delware have confirmed four cases of swine flu there , Reuters is reporting .
The Mexican strain of swine flu now sweeping the world is a pandemic in all but name
The number of confirmed cases of swine flu in the UK has risen to 18 .
--------------------------------
2009-04-27
Countries around the world have moved to contain the spread of a possible pandemic after a new swine flu outbreak killed 103 people in Mexico .
Swine flu does not normally infect humans , although sporadic cases do occur - usually in people who have had close contact with pigs .
In 1976 , a swine flu outbreak in New Jersey made more than 200 people seriously ill and killed one .
Any decision to produce fresh vaccine for the swine flu virus will be made by the World Health Organisation .
As fears grow about whether a new dangerous strain of swine flu will develop into a global pandemic and affect economies , Asia can look to the 2003 SARS epidemic for pointers on what might happen .
--------------------------------
